1) Topopgraphic organization is a way cortex to organize cortex suuch that adjacent parts of cortex receive input from physically adjacent stimuli
2) For instasnce, visual cortex is topographically organized susch that the spatial location of stimuli on the retina is preserved.
3) somatosensory system is also topographically organized, such that adjacent body parts are "genreally" kept adjacent in cortex.
4) in the somatosensory systetm, the limbs and trunk are medialk, and the upper limbs and face are represented laterally
5) The auditory system contains tonotopic organization, such that medial cares about lwoer frewquency sounds and the lateral carese about higher frequuency sounds.
5) In topographic organization of thte cortex, the size of the representattion can be disproportional to the stimulus. The larger the representation, the more detailed the sensory information about that stimuli is.
6) Cortical plastiicty suggests that the size of tehse preseresnations can change through learning. For instance, if a hand is 


1) Large proojection cells are excitatory, pyramidal, glutamatergic neurons that project far distances subcortically. 
2) The largest projection cells are in Layer 5 of cortex, but are also in Layers 3 and 6.
3) These output cells receive input from other layers such as Layer 4, 
4) Local interneurons tend to be GABA-ergic, and communicate within the same layer.
5) These local interneurons are seen predominantly in Layers 2/3, where many cortico-cortico communication occurs.
6) 

1) Ventral stream starts off midget cells in the retina.
2) Midget cells project to parvocellular cells in the LGN
3) Parvocellular cells are mostly located in layers 3-6
4) These then project to V1, layer 4C-beta,  
5) These project to V2
6) These then project to V4 for color,
7) Ventral stream is concerned with 'What' the object is, so has higher spatial and color resolution. 
8) Ends in temporal cortex regions, where faical recognition and stuff can occur

1) dorsal stream starts off with the activation of parasol cells in the retinaa
2) Thes parasol cells project to magnocellular cells in the LGN, which are located in layers 1/2.
3) These then project to calcarine cortex, where they enter V1 at layer 4c-alpha
4) These continue into V2, where they are processed in cortex organized in thick stripes
5) These then contitnue to the Middle Tempomral (MT) area, and then finally to downstream output locations, uusually in the parietal lobe
5) The dorsal stream is mostly concerned with "where" an object is, with higher temporal resolutiton but lower sptial. 
7) The dorsal stream is also interconnected with seveeral motor pathways, allowing eye-hand coordination.
8) Damage of the dorsal pathway near the parietal lobe can lead to optic ataxia, where orientation can be identified by sight but placing ana object inside cannot be.

1) the auditory pathway starts at the spiral ganglion, which projects via auditory nerve to the cochlear ganglion.
2) The cochlear ganglion is tonotopically organized by pitch, and there is intial processing done here.
3) These thten project to the superior olive via the trapezoid body.
4) THe superior olive is also tonotopically organized by the pitch. The lateral superior olive rpocesses high frequency sounds, and the medial superior olive processes low frequency sounds.
5) The lateral superior olive also focuses more on different in loudness in high frequency sounds, allowing pinpointing of left-right azimuth direction.
6) The medial superior olive focuses more on the temporal difference in arrival in ear, allowing pinpointing of directionailty of low-frequency noises.
7) From the supeiroir olive, these project via lateral meniscus to the inferior colliculus, where it projects o MGNn by inferior brachum.
8) From there it projects to Heschl's Gyrus.
9) damage to theschle's gyrus cannot distinguish squence o fpitches, cannot namne that tuune.

1) Olfacatory system starts with activation of olfacatory receptor cells, which are G-protein coupled rfeceptors that activate when a certain ordorant binds
2) These then project to MT cells in glomerulus.  
3) These then project to several different places. Some project to anterior olfacatory nucleus, which then project to the contralaterla olfactory bulub
4) Others project to piriform cortex.
5) Piriform cortex might be needed for higher level processing to put several different odors together for a single concept.
5) Others project to olfactory tubercle
6) Other project to limbic structures, like the etorhinal cortex and the amgydala
7) These might be important for the emotiaonl and memory response to smell.
7) From there, these project to thalamus and frontal cortex, which then goes to orbitalfrontal cortex for higher level processing.

1) melanposin-containing retinal ganglion cells depolarize on contact with light (unlike rods and cones)
2) These do not adapt.
3) These then project to suprachiasmatic nucleus, which tgets activated.
4) These then send ihnibotry signals to paraventricular nucleus, which then projects by way of spinal cord (IML and cervical ganglion) to the pineal gland
5) The pineal lgland releases melatonin at night to encourage sleep
6) 


